---
title: "FAQ"
bg: white
color: black
fa-icon: question
style: center
---

### How is afriLeaks different from Wikileaks?
AfriLeaks does not overlap with Wikileaks. Wikileaks seeks and publishes its own information. AfriLeaks is nothing more than a highly secure mailbox' connecting investigative media houses to whistleblowers and sources. afrileaks utilizes the software of globaLeaks and is maintained by a core group of expert developers with the open source community.

### How do you select media organisations?
The media organisations fulfill several criteria: excellence in investigative journalism, integrity in content and investigative processes, geographic relevance, etc. Media houses that comprise members of the African Network of Centers for Investigative Reporting (ANCIR) are personally approached, while others that have approached us are vetted for the same by a board of leading investigative journalists.

### Why is the AfriLeaks connection so slow?
The connection to the secure AfriLeaks installation goes through the Tor network. Tor is a network of virtual tunnels that enable improved privacy and security on the internet. Tor sends your traffic through three random servers (also called relays) before the traffic is send to the public internet. The disadvantage is that this can make the connection very slow. The advantage is that this protects your anonymity.

### Does declaring information involve danger?
Yes - leaking is never without risk. On this website, we try, as much as possible, to protect information and to provide information about the risks. The system renders tracing leaks extremely difficult, and often, close to impossible. ANCIR media houses receive information and digital security training courses to ensure that once the information is received by the investigative media, their internal systems - such as mobile, email etc, are also protected. That said, while trying to mitigate as much as possible, the whistleblower and journalists are responsible for their own actions.
