---
title: "security"
bg: black
color: white
fa-icon: unlock
style: center
---

# Security

### Security for whistleblowers
Leaking sensitive information is not free of risk. There social as well as technical risks involved that can threaten your anonymity. You can however, take precautionary measures to protect yourself.

### Social Risks
Before you leak information, you should be aware of what can and will happen with the information that you have leaked and how it could possible be published. You can ask yourself the following questions for example:
* Are you the only person with access to this information? In other words, can it be directly related back to you personally?
* Are you aware that, after the information has been published, people can ask you questions about the leaked information, even without knowing you are the source?
* Can you handle the pressure that comes with a possible internal or external investigation about the leaked information?

### Technological Risks
You should be aware that whenever you use a computer, mobile phone or the internet, or other forms of communication, most of these actions will leave traces. Investigators could use that kind of information to help identify you, you whereabouts or your contacts. You can take very specific risk mitigating precautions to prevent you from leaving such electronic traces. Your computer, for example, could leave traces for the following activities:
* Visiting a whistleblower platform such as AfriLeaks, Globaleaks or Wikileaks;
* A copy of the information you yourself leaked to such a whistleblower platform;
* The uploading of the information itself;
* Correspondence with journalists involved with the whistleblower platform;
* Your name and other information in Word file meta data (author, date, etc);
As you can see, there are various risks involved and the ones list above are by no means all of them. Yet with a few technical steps you can try to minimize these risks as much as possible.

### Social Security
When it comes to the social security aspect, you should at least take the following into consideration:
* Before and after leaking the information, tell absolutely no-one that you will do so or have done so;
* After the leaked information has hit the media, be careful when sharing your opinion on the matter;
* Ensure that there are no monitoring or surveillance systems in place when you upload the information (such as security cameras for example);
* Do not use search engines or news websites looking specifically for the information you leaked. This could arouse suspicion about your involvement;
These are just a few simple measures that you can take to better protect yourself.

### Technical Protection
Because computers and networksystems are complex, technical measures to protect your anonymity are often complicated. In order to ensure the technical security of your anonymity for as much as possible, you need to be computer-savvy enough to understand these risks yourself.
By following the procedures listed below, you will greatly enhance your anonymity:
* Use the Tor Browser Bundle software for surfing the web anonymously. This is easy to use software;
* Besides using the Tor Browser Bundle you should also use BleachBit, which will thoroughly clean up your machine and get rid of cookies, logs, etc. Read the instructions;
* Do not upload information from your own work or home computer;
* Do not keep a copy of the leaked information yourself;
* Ensure that you do not leave a trace of the leaked information on computer systems. Remove all the files from a USB disk you may have used, then fill the USB drive with music, movies or photos to ensure the files can no longer be recovered;
* Some information might contain meta-data, such as the author and date that the file was written or the type of camera a photo was made with, or GPS coordinates where a photo was taken. Try to remove any and all meta-data that is not relevant to the leaked information and might expose you personally;
* Receiving parties may have software to remove metadata but you can do that yourself as well. To remove metadata you could use a program such as MAT (Metadata Anonymisation Toolkit).
By following the procedures listed above and taking into consideration the social risk factors, you will greatly increase your chances of remaining anonymous. This does not mean that your anonymity will be 100% protected and ensured. To increase your general knowledge on digital security we recommend reading: SecurityInABox.org.
This website explains many common risks involved with electronic communications and ways to mitigate them.

## BEWARE: LEAKING HAS CONSEQUENCES